More detailed documentation for recipes (#2343)
NVIDIA/TransformerEngine: docs/features/low_precision_training/fp8_delayed_scaling/fp8_delayed_scaling.rst

..
    Copyright (c) 2022-2025, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.

    See LICENSE for license information.

FP8 Delayed Scaling
===================================

FP8 Delayed Scaling estimates scaling factors from historical amax values rather than computing them

> for each tensor. This reduces tensor reads per quantization from two to one, improving memory efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for each tensor. Compared to Current Scaling recipe, this reduces tensor reads per quantization from two to one, improving memory efficiency.
```

.. code-block:: text

   Before rotation: [amax_N, amax_1, amax_2, ..., amax_N-1]   (amax_N = current, amax_1 = oldest)
   After rotation:  [0,      amax_2, ..., amax_N-1, amax_N]   (amax_1 dropped, amax_N appended)

The effective history length is ``amax_history_len - 1`` since position 0 is reserved 
for the staging area.

The implementation differs between PyTorch and JAX:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: PyTorch

      Each module creates two ``amax_history`` tensors, initialized to zero:
      
      - Forward: shape ``(amax_history_len, num_gemms * 3)`` — three FP8 tensors per GEMM (input, weight, output)
      - Backward: shape ``(amax_history_len, num_gemms * 2)`` — two FP8 tensors per GEMM (grad_output, grad_input)
      
      During the first forward pass, modules register their ``amax_history`` tensors 
      to a **global buffer** associated with the autocast context. When the context exits,
      a single CUDA kernel processes all registered tensors at once - performing both 
      amax reduction across GPUs and history rotation.
      
      This batched approach (one kernel for all tensors instead of one kernel per tensor)

>       minimizes kernel launch overhead.

Author: I made it simpler, but I think that the user may want to look at the profile and he should understand where this rotation happens.

Distributed Training
--------------------

Since FP8 Delayed Scaling uses the same data formats as FP8 Current Scaling,
transpose gather is not supported. However, amax reduction works slightly differently in different frameworks.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: PyTorch

      Amax reduction is controlled by two parameters:
      
      - ``reduce_amax`` in recipe: enables/disables reduction (required for SP and CP)
      - ``amax_reduction_group`` in ``autocast``: specifies the process group for reduction
      
      We recommend reducing amax across all GPUs where the tensor is sharded, 
      including data parallel ranks.

      .. literalinclude:: pytorch_delayed_scaling_distributed_example.py
         :language: python
         :start-after: # START_AMAX_REDUCTION_EXAMPLE
         :end-before: # END_AMAX_REDUCTION_EXAMPLE

      In data parallel training, some modules may not execute on certain ranks 
      (e.g., MoE experts that receive no tokens). This is handled as follows:
      
      - **First iteration**: All modules must execute on all ranks to register 
        their ``amax_history`` tensors in the global buffer. Mismatched registration

>         causes the ``all_reduce`` to hang due to different tensor sizes across ranks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        would cause the ``all_reduce`` to hang due to different tensor sizes across ranks.
```
